# ImageSearchApp

ImageSearchApp is a Django web application for searching images stored in Google Cloud Storage. The application utilizes OpenAI's API to generate descriptions of images, which can then be searched through a web interface.

## Features

- Image listing from Google Cloud Storage.
- Search functionality based on image descriptions generated by OpenAI's API.
- Responsive web design for viewing images.

## Prerequisites

Before you can run this project, you need to have Python and Django installed on your machine. You will also need access to a Google Cloud Storage bucket and an OpenAI API key.

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
git clone [https://github.com/yourusername/ImageSearchApp.git](https://github.com/Taner169/ImageSearchApp)
2. Navigate to the project directory:
cd ImageSearchApp

3. Install the required Python packages:
pip install -r requirements.txt


## Configuration
1. Set up your prompt in the `bilder/utils.py / bilder/management/update_description`:
```python
# update_description
def get_image_description(image_url):
    """
    Generates a description of an image using OpenAI's API.
    """
    try:
        response = openai.Completion.create(
            engine="gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct",
            prompt=f" Your prompt here {image_url}",
            max_tokens=150,
            temperature=0.5,
            top_p=1.0,
            api_key=settings.OPENAI_API_KEY
        )
        description = response.choices[0].text.strip()
        return description
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Failed to generate description: {str(e)}")
        return "Description could not be generated."

# utils.py
   def generate_description(image_url):
    try:
        response = openai.Completion.create(
            engine="gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct",
            prompt=f" Your prompt here {image_url}",
            max_tokens=150,
            temperature=0.5,
            top_p=1.0,
            api_key=settings.OPENAI_API_KEY
        )
        return response.choices[0].text.strip()
    except Exception as e:
        return f"Failed to generate description: {str(e)}"
```

2. Set up your Google Cloud credentials and OpenAI API key in the `settings.py`:
```python
# settings.py
OPENAI_API_KEY = 'your_openai_api_key_here'
GCS_BUCKET_NAME = 'your_google_cloud_storage_bucket_name_here'
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS = 'path/to/your/google-credentials-file.json'
Configure your database settings in settings.py under the DATABASES configuration.
```

### Complexity of Operations

1. **Update Images**
   - The `update_images` operation might experience slower performance due to its complex nature. This process could involve:
     - **Generating Descriptions for Each Image**: This step requires making API calls to OpenAI for each image to obtain descriptions. The network latency and response times from the OpenAI API can add significant delays.
     - **Handling Image Data**: This includes downloading and processing image data, which can be time-consuming, especially if the images are large in size.

2. **Update Descriptions**
   - In contrast, the `update_descriptions` operation is generally faster and less resource-intensive. It focuses on:
     - **Updating Existing Records**: This primarily involves modifying fields in a database, which is typically quicker as it does not require interaction with external APIs.
     - **Performing Minor and Efficient Operations**: This might include checking for the existence of records and applying straightforward updates, both of which are operations that consume less time and resources.
